She had been told time and time again that the most important steps were the first and the last. It was something that she carried within her in everything she did, but then he showed up and disrupted everything. He told her that she had it wrong. The first step wasn't the most important. The last step wasn't the most important. It was the next step that was the most important.
The river slowly meandered through the open space. It had hidden secrets that it didn't want to reveal. It had a well-planned strategy to appear calm, inviting, and appealing. That's how the river lured her unknowing victims to her water's edge.
She's asked the question so many times that she barely listened to the answers anymore. The answers were always the same. Well, not exactly the same, but the same in a general sense. A more accurate description was the answers never surprised her. So, she asked for the 10,000th time, "What's your favorite animal?" But this time was different. When she heard the young boy's answer, she wondered if she had heard him correctly.
It probably seemed trivial to most people, but it mattered to Tracey. She wasn't sure why it mattered so much to her, but she understood deep within her being that it mattered to her. So for the 365th day in a row, Tracey sat down to eat pancakes for breakfast.
She closed her eyes and then opened them again. What she was seeing just didn't make sense. She shook her head seeing if that would help. It didn't. Although it seemed beyond reality, there was no denying she was witnessing a large formation of alien spaceships filling the sky.
I guess we could discuss the implications of the phrase "meant to be." That is if we wanted to drown ourselves in a sea of backwardly referential semantics and other mumbo-jumbo. Maybe such a discussion would result in the determination that "meant to be" is exactly as meaningless a phrase as it seems to be, and that none of us is actually meant to be doing anything at all. But that's my existential underpants underpinnings showing. It's the way the cookie crumbles. And now I want a cookie.
There was a time when he would have embraced the change that was coming. In his youth, he sought adventure and the unknown, but that had been years ago. He wished he could go back and learn to find the excitement that came with change but it was useless. That curiosity had long left him to where he had come to loathe anything that put him out of his comfort zone.
It really doesn't matter what she thinks as it isn't her problem to solve. That's what he kept trying to convince himself. She was trying to insert her opinion where it wasn't wanted or welcome. He already had a plan and even though that plan didn't correspond with what she wanted him to do or what should be done, it wasn't her decision to make. The question now became whether he would stick to his convictions and go through with his plan knowing she wouldn't approve.
The blinking light caught her attention. She thought about it a bit and couldn't remember ever noticing it before. That was strange since it was obvious the flashing light had been there for years. Now she wondered how she missed it for that amount of time and what other things in her small town she had failed to notice.
The desert wind blew the tumbleweed in front of the car. Alex swerved to avoid the tumbleweed, but he turned the wheel a bit too strong and the car left the road and skidded onto the dirt median. He instantly slammed on the brakes and the car stopped in a cloud of dirt. When the dust cloud had settled and he could see around him again, he realized that he'd somehow crossed over into an entirely new dimension.
He was after the truth. At least, that's what he told himself. He believed it, but any rational person on the outside could see he was lying to himself. It was apparent he was really only after his own truth that he'd already decided and was after this truth because the facts didn't line up with the truth he wanted. So he continued to tell everyone he was after the truth oblivious to the real truth sitting right in front of him.
It was a question of which of the two she preferred. On the one hand, the choice seemed simple. The more expensive one with a brand name would be the choice of most. It was the easy choice. The safe choice. But she wasn't sure she actually preferred it.
I guess we could discuss the implications of the phrase "meant to be." That is if we wanted to drown ourselves in a sea of backwardly referential semantics and other mumbo-jumbo. Maybe such a discussion would result in the determination that "meant to be" is exactly as meaningless a phrase as it seems to be, and that none of us is actually meant to be doing anything at all. But that's my existential underpants underpinnings showing. It's the way the cookie crumbles. And now I want a cookie.
She looked at her student wondering if she could ever get through. "You need to learn to think for yourself," she wanted to tell him. "Your friends are holding you back and bringing you down." But she didn't because she knew his friends were all that he had and even if that meant a life of misery, he would never give them up.
He hid under the covers hoping that nobody would notice him there. It really didn't make much sense since it would be obvious to anyone who walked into the room there was someone hiding there, but he still held out hope. He heard footsteps coming down the hall and stop in front in front of the bedroom door. He heard the squeak of the door hinges and someone opened the bedroom door. He held his breath waiting for whoever was about to discover him, but they never did.
Brenda never wanted to be famous. While most of her friends dreamed about being famous, she could see the negative aspects that those who wanted to be famous seemed to ignore. The fact that you could never do anything in public without being mobbed and the complete lack of privacy was something that she never wanted to experience. She also had no desire to have strangers speculating about every aspect of her life and what each thing she did was supposed to mean. Brenda was perfectly happy with her anonymous life where she could do exactly as she wanted without anyone else giving a damn. Thus, her overnight Internet celebrity was not something she was thrilled about as her friends told her how lucky she was.
What were they eating? It didn't taste like anything she had ever eaten before and although she was famished, she didn't dare ask. She knew the answer would be one she didn't want to hear.
Betty was a creature of habit and she thought she liked it that way. That was until Dave showed up in her life. She now had a choice to make and it would determine whether her lie remained the same or if it would change forever.
She has seen this scene before. It had come to her in dreams many times before. She had to pinch herself to make sure it wasn't a dream again. As her fingers squeezed against her arm, she felt the pain. It was this pain that immediately woke her up.
There were about twenty people on the dam. Most of them were simply walking and getting exercise. There were a few who were fishing. There was a family who had laid down a blanket and they were having a picnic. It was like this most days and nothing seemed out of the ordinary. The problem was that nobody noticed the water leaking through the dam wall.
The wave crashed and hit the sandcastle head-on. The sandcastle began to melt under the waves force and as the wave receded, half the sandcastle was gone. The next wave hit, not quite as strong, but still managed to cover the remains of the sandcastle and take more of it away. The third wave, a big one, crashed over the sandcastle completely covering and engulfing it. When it receded, there was no trace the sandcastle ever existed and hours of hard work disappeared forever.
Green vines attached to the trunk of the tree had wound themselves toward the top of the canopy. Ants used the vine as their private highway, avoiding all the creases and crags of the bark, to freely move at top speed from top to bottom or bottom to top depending on their current chore. At least this was the way it was supposed to be. Something had damaged the vine overnight halfway up the tree leaving a gap in the once pristine ant highway.
The bowl was filled with fruit. It seemed to be an overabundance of strawberries, but it also included blueberries, raspberries, grapes, and banana slices. This was the meal Sarah had every morning to start her day since she could remember. Why she decided to add chocolate as an option today was still a bit of a surprise, but she had been in the process of deciding she wanted to change her routine. This was a baby step to begin that start.
He sat across from her trying to imagine it was the first time. It wasn't. Had it been a hundred? It quite possibly could have been. Two hundred? Probably not. His mind wandered until he caught himself and again tried to imagine it was the first time.
"Can I get you anything else?" David asked. It was a question he asked a hundred times a day and he always received the same answer. It had become such an ingrained part of his daily routine that he had to step back and actively think when he heard the little girl's reply. Nobody had before answered the question the way that she did, and David didn't know how he should respond.
Mary had to make a decision and she knew that whatever decision she made, it would upset someone. It seemed like such a silly reason for people to get upset but she knew the minute that she began to consider doing it that there was no way everyone in her life would be pleased with what she ultimately decided to do. It was simply a question of who she would rather displease most. While this had always been her parents, and especially her mom, in the past that she tried to keep from upsetting, she decided that this time the person she was going to please the most with her decision was herself.
The answer was within her reach. It was hidden in a box and now that box sat directly in front of her. She'd spent years searching for it and could hardly believe she'd finally managed to find it. She turned the key to unlock the box and then gently lifted the top. She held her breath in anticipation of finally knowing the answer she had spent so much of her time in search of. As the lid came off she could see that the box was empty.
She tried to explain that love wasn't like pie. There wasn't a set number of slices to be given out. There wasn't less to be given to one person if you wanted to give more to another. That after a set amount was given out it would all disappear. She tried to explain this, but it fell on deaf ears.
I guess we could discuss the implications of the phrase "meant to be." That is if we wanted to drown ourselves in a sea of backwardly referential semantics and other mumbo-jumbo. Maybe such a discussion would result in the determination that "meant to be" is exactly as meaningless a phrase as it seems to be, and that none of us is actually meant to be doing anything at all. But that's my existential underpants underpinnings showing. It's the way the cookie crumbles. And now I want a cookie.
The shoes had been there for as long as anyone could remember. In fact, it was difficult for anyone to come up with a date they had first appeared. It had seemed they'd always been there and yet they seemed so out of place. Why nobody had removed them was a question that had been asked time and again, but while they all thought it, nobody had ever found the energy to actually do it. So, the shoes remained on the steps, out of place in one sense, but perfectly normal in another.

Chapter 1
I
n my younger and more vulnerable years my father gave
me some advice that I’ve been turning over in my mind ever
since.
“Whenever you feel like criticizing any one,” he told me, “just
remember that all the people in this world haven’t had the advantages that you’ve had.”
He didn’t say any more, but we’ve always been unusually
communicative in a reserved way, and I understood that he
meant a great deal more than that. In consequence, I’m inclined to reserve all judgments, a habit that has opened up
many curious natures to me and also made me the victim of not
a few veteran bores. The abnormal mind is quick to detect and
attach itself to this quality when it appears in a normal person,
and so it came about that in college I was unjustly accused of
being a politician, because I was privy to the secret griefs of
wild, unknown men. Most of the confidences were unsought —
frequently I have feigned sleep, preoccupation, or a hostile levity when I realized by some unmistakable sign that an intimate
revelation was quivering on the horizon; for the intimate revelations of young men, or at least the terms in which they express them, are usually plagiaristic and marred by obvious suppressions. Reserving judgments is a matter of infinite hope. I
am still a little afraid of missing something if I forget that, as
my father snobbishly suggested, and I snobbishly repeat, a
sense of the fundamental decencies is parcelled out unequally
at birth.
And, after boasting this way of my tolerance, I come to the
admission that it has a limit. Conduct may be founded on the
hard rock or the wet marshes, but after a certain point I don’t
care what it’s founded on. When I came back from the East last
autumn I felt that I wanted the world to be in uniform and at a
sort of moral attention forever; I wanted no more riotous
4
excursions with privileged glimpses into the human heart. Only
Gatsby, the man who gives his name to this book, was exempt
from my reaction — Gatsby, who represented everything for
which I have an unaffected scorn. If personality is an unbroken
series of successful gestures, then there was something gorgeous about him, some heightened sensitivity to the promises
of life, as if he were related to one of those intricate machines
that register earthquakes ten thousand miles away. This responsiveness had nothing to do with that flabby impressionability which is dignified under the name of the “creative temperament.”— it was an extraordinary gift for hope, a romantic
readiness such as I have never found in any other person and
which it is not likely I shall ever find again. No — Gatsby
turned out all right at the end; it is what preyed on Gatsby,
what foul dust floated in the wake of his dreams that temporarily closed out my interest in the abortive sorrows and shortwinded elations of men.
My family have been prominent, well-to-do people in this
Middle Western city for three generations. The Carraways are
something of a clan, and we have a tradition that we’re descended from the Dukes of Buccleuch, but the actual founder of my
line was my grandfather’s brother, who came here in fifty-one,
sent a substitute to the Civil War, and started the wholesale
hardware business that my father carries on to-day.
I never saw this great-uncle, but I’m supposed to look like
him — with special reference to the rather hard-boiled painting
that hangs in father’s office I graduated from New Haven in
1915, just a quarter of a century after my father, and a little
later I participated in that delayed Teutonic migration known
as the Great War. I enjoyed the counter-raid so thoroughly that
I came back restless. Instead of being the warm centre of the
world, the Middle West now seemed like the ragged edge of
the universe — so I decided to go East and learn the bond business. Everybody I knew was in the bond business, so I supposed it could support one more single man. All my aunts and
uncles talked it over as if they were choosing a prep school for
me, and finally said, “Why — ye — es,” with very grave, hesitant faces. Father agreed to finance me for a year, and after
various delays I came East, permanently, I thought, in the
spring of twenty-two.
5
The practical thing was to find rooms in the city, but it was a
warm season, and I had just left a country of wide lawns and
friendly trees, so when a young man at the office suggested
that we take a house together in a commuting town, it sounded
like a great idea. He found the house, a weather-beaten cardboard bungalow at eighty a month, but at the last minute the
firm ordered him to Washington, and I went out to the country
alone. I had a dog — at least I had him for a few days until he
ran away — and an old Dodge and a Finnish woman, who made
my bed and cooked breakfast and muttered Finnish wisdom to
herself over the electric stove.
It was lonely for a day or so until one morning some man,
more recently arrived than I, stopped me on the road.
“How do you get to West Egg village?” he asked helplessly.
I told him. And as I walked on I was lonely no longer. I was a
guide, a pathfinder, an original settler. He had casually conferred on me the freedom of the neighborhood.
And so with the sunshine and the great bursts of leaves
growing on the trees, just as things grow in fast movies, I had
that familiar conviction that life was beginning over again with
the summer.
There was so much to read, for one thing, and so much fine
health to be pulled down out of the young breath-giving air. I
bought a dozen volumes on banking and credit and investment
securities, and they stood on my shelf in red and gold like new
money from the mint, promising to unfold the shining secrets
that only Midas and Morgan and Maecenas knew. And I had
the high intention of reading many other books besides. I was
rather literary in college — one year I wrote a series of very
solemn and obvious editorials for the “Yale News.”— and now I
was going to bring back all such things into my life and become again that most limited of all specialists, the “well-rounded man.” This isn’t just an epigram — life is much more successfully looked at from a single window, after all.
It was a matter of chance that I should have rented a house
in one of the strangest communities in North America. It was
on that slender riotous island which extends itself due east of
New York — and where there are, among other natural curiosities, two unusual formations of land. Twenty miles from the
city a pair of enormous eggs, identical in contour and
6
separated only by a courtesy bay, jut out into the most domesticated body of salt water in the Western hemisphere, the great
wet barnyard of Long Island Sound. they are not perfect ovals
— like the egg in the Columbus story, they are both crushed
flat at the contact end — but their physical resemblance must
be a source of perpetual confusion to the gulls that fly overhead. to the wingless a more arresting phenomenon is their
dissimilarity in every particular except shape and size.
I lived at West Egg, the — well, the less fashionable of the
two, though this is a most superficial tag to express the bizarre
and not a little sinister contrast between them. my house was
at the very tip of the egg, only fifty yards from the Sound, and
squeezed between two huge places that rented for twelve or
fifteen thousand a season. the one on my right was a colossal
affair by any standard — it was a factual imitation of some
Hotel de Ville in Normandy, with a tower on one side, spanking
new under a thin beard of raw ivy, and a marble swimming
pool, and more than forty acres of lawn and garden. it was
Gatsby’s mansion. Or, rather, as I didn’t know Mr. Gatsby, it
was a mansion inhabited by a gentleman of that name. My own
house was an eyesore, but it was a small eyesore, and it had
been overlooked, so I had a view of the water, a partial view of
my neighbor’s lawn, and the consoling proximity of millionaires
— all for eighty dollars a month.
Across the courtesy bay the white palaces of fashionable East
Egg glittered along the water, and the history of the summer
really begins on the evening I drove over there to have dinner
with the Tom Buchanans. Daisy was my second cousin once removed, and I’d known Tom in college. And just after the war I
spent two days with them in Chicago.
Her husband, among various physical accomplishments, had
been one of the most powerful ends that ever played football at
New Haven — a national figure in a way, one of those men who
reach such an acute limited excellence at twenty-one that
everything afterward savors of anti-climax. His family were
enormously wealthy — even in college his freedom with money
was a matter for reproach — but now he’d left Chicago and
come East in a fashion that rather took your breath away: for
instance, he’d brought down a string of polo ponies from Lake
7
Forest. it was hard to realize that a man in my own generation
was wealthy enough to do that.
Why they came East I don’t know. They had spent a year in
France for no particular reason, and then drifted here and
there unrestfully wherever people played polo and were rich
together. This was a permanent move, said Daisy over the telephone, but I didn’t believe it — I had no sight into Daisy’s
heart, but I felt that Tom would drift on forever seeking, a little
wistfully, for the dramatic turbulence of some irrecoverable
football game.
And so it happened that on a warm windy evening I drove
over to East Egg to see two old friends whom I scarcely knew
at all. Their house was even more elaborate than I expected, a
cheerful red-and-white Georgian Colonial mansion, overlooking
the bay. The lawn started at the beach and ran toward the
front door for a quarter of a mile, jumping over sun-dials and
brick walks and burning gardens — finally when it reached the
house drifting up the side in bright vines as though from the
momentum of its run. The front was broken by a line of French
windows, glowing now with reflected gold and wide open to
the warm windy afternoon, and Tom Buchanan in riding
clothes was standing with his legs apart on the front porch.
He had changed since his New Haven years. Now he was a
sturdy straw-haired man of thirty with a rather hard mouth and
a supercilious manner. Two shining arrogant eyes had established dominance over his face and gave him the appearance of
always leaning aggressively forward. Not even the effeminate
swank of his riding clothes could hide the enormous power of
that body — he seemed to fill those glistening boots until he
strained the top lacing, and you could see a great pack of
muscle shifting when his shoulder moved under his thin coat. It
was a body capable of enormous leverage — a cruel body.
His speaking voice, a gruff husky tenor, added to the impression of fractiousness he conveyed. There was a touch of paternal contempt in it, even toward people he liked — and there
were men at New Haven who had hated his guts.
“Now, don’t think my opinion on these matters is final,” he
seemed to say, “just because I’m stronger and more of a man
than you are.” We were in the same senior society, and while
we were never intimate I always had the impression that he
8
approved of me and wanted me to like him with some harsh,
defiant wistfulness of his own.
We talked for a few minutes on the sunny porch.
“I’ve got a nice place here,” he said, his eyes flashing about
restlessly.
Turning me around by one arm, he moved a broad flat hand
along the front vista, including in its sweep a sunken Italian
garden, a half acre of deep, pungent roses, and a snub-nosed
motor-boat that bumped the tide offshore.
“It belonged to Demaine, the oil man.” He turned me around
again, politely and abruptly. “We’ll go inside.”
We walked through a high hallway into a bright rosy-colored
space, fragilely bound into the house by French windows at
either end. The windows were ajar and gleaming white against
the fresh grass outside that seemed to grow a little way into
the house. A breeze blew through the room, blew curtains in at
one end and out the other like pale flags, twisting them up toward the frosted wedding-cake of the ceiling, and then rippled
over the wine-colored rug, making a shadow on it as wind does
on the sea.
The only completely stationary object in the room was an
enormous couch on which two young women were buoyed up
as though upon an anchored balloon. They were both in white,
and their dresses were rippling and fluttering as if they had
just been blown back in after a short flight around the house. I
must have stood for a few moments listening to the whip and
snap of the curtains and the groan of a picture on the wall.
Then there was a boom as Tom Buchanan shut the rear windows and the caught wind died out about the room, and the
curtains and the rugs and the two young women ballooned
slowly to the floor.
The younger of the two was a stranger to me. She was extended full length at her end of the divan, completely motionless,
and with her chin raised a little, as if she were balancing
something on it which was quite likely to fall. If she saw me out
of the corner of her eyes she gave no hint of it — indeed, I was
almost surprised into murmuring an apology for having disturbed her by coming in.
The other girl, Daisy, made an attempt to rise — she leaned
slightly forward with a conscientious expression — then she
9
laughed, an absurd, charming little laugh, and I laughed too
and came forward into the room.
“I’m p-paralyzed with happiness.” She laughed again, as if
she said something very witty, and held my hand for a moment,
looking up into my face, promising that there was no one in the
world she so much wanted to see. That was a way she had. She
hinted in a murmur that the surname of the balancing girl was
Baker. (I’ve heard it said that Daisy’s murmur was only to
make people lean toward her; an irrelevant criticism that made
it no less charming.)
At any rate, Miss Baker’s lips fluttered, she nodded at me almost imperceptibly, and then quickly tipped her head back
again — the object she was balancing had obviously tottered a
little and given her something of a fright. Again a sort of apology arose to my lips. Almost any exhibition of complete selfsufficiency draws a stunned tribute from me.
I looked back at my cousin, who began to ask me questions in
her low, thrilling voice. It was the kind of voice that the ear follows up and down, as if each speech is an arrangement of
notes that will never be played again. Her face was sad and
lovely with bright things in it, bright eyes and a bright passionate mouth, but there was an excitement in her voice that men
who had cared for her found difficult to forget: a singing compulsion, a whispered “Listen,” a promise that she had done
gay, exciting things just a while since and that there were gay,
exciting things hovering in the next hour.
I told her how I had stopped off in Chicago for a day on my
way East, and how a dozen people had sent their love through
me.
“Do they miss me?” she cried ecstatically.
“The whole town is desolate. All the cars have the left rear
wheel painted black as a mourning wreath, and there’s a persistent wail all night along the north shore.”
“How gorgeous! Let’s go back, Tom. To-morrow!” Then she
added irrelevantly: “You ought to see the baby.”
“I’d like to.”
“She’s asleep. She’s three years old. Haven’t you ever seen
her?”
“Never.”
“Well, you ought to see her. She’s ——”
10
Tom Buchanan, who had been hovering restlessly about the
room, stopped and rested his hand on my shoulder.
“What you doing, Nick?”
“I’m a bond man.”
“Who with?”
I told him.
“Never heard of them,” he remarked decisively.
This annoyed me.
“You will,” I answered shortly. “You will if you stay in the
East.”
“Oh, I’ll stay in the East, don’t you worry,” he said, glancing
at Daisy and then back at me, as if he were alert for something
more. “I’d be a God damned fool to live anywhere else.”
At this point Miss Baker said: “Absolutely!” with such suddenness that I started — it was the first word she uttered since
I came into the room. Evidently it surprised her as much as it
did me, for she yawned and with a series of rapid, deft movements stood up into the room.
“I’m stiff,” she complained, “I’ve been lying on that sofa for
as long as I can remember.”
“Don’t look at me,” Daisy retorted, “I’ve been trying to get
you to New York all afternoon.”
“No, thanks,” said Miss Baker to the four cocktails just in
from the pantry, “I’m absolutely in training.”
Her host looked at her incredulously.
“You are!” He took down his drink as if it were a drop in the
bottom of a glass. “How you ever get anything done is beyond
me.”
I looked at Miss Baker, wondering what it was she “got
done.” I enjoyed looking at her. She was a slender, smallbreasted girl, with an erect carriage, which she accentuated by
throwing her body backward at the shoulders like a young cadet. Her gray sun-strained eyes looked back at me with polite
reciprocal curiosity out of a wan, charming, discontented face.
It occurred to me now that I had seen her, or a picture of her,
somewhere before.
“You live in West Egg,” she remarked contemptuously. “I
know somebody there.”
“I don’t know a single ——”
“You must know Gatsby.”
11
“Gatsby?” demanded Daisy. “What Gatsby?”
Before I could reply that he was my neighbor dinner was announced; wedging his tense arm imperatively under mine, Tom
Buchanan compelled me from the room as though he were
moving a checker to another square.
Slenderly, languidly, their hands set lightly on their hips, the
two young women preceded us out onto a rosy-colored porch,
open toward the sunset, where four candles flickered on the
table in the diminished wind.
“Why CANDLES?” objected Daisy, frowning. She snapped
them out with her fingers. “In two weeks it’ll be the longest
day in the year.” She looked at us all radiantly. “Do you always
watch for the longest day of the year and then miss it? I always
watch for the longest day in the year and then miss it.”
“We ought to plan something,” yawned Miss Baker, sitting
down at the table as if she were getting into bed.
“All right,” said Daisy. “What’ll we plan?” She turned to me
helplessly: “What do people plan?”
Before I could answer her eyes fastened with an awed expression on her little finger.
“Look!” she complained; “I hurt it.”
We all looked — the knuckle was black and blue.
“You did it, Tom,” she said accusingly. “I know you didn’t
mean to, but you DID do it. That’s what I get for marrying a
brute of a man, a great, big, hulking physical specimen of a
——”
“I hate that word hulking,” objected Tom crossly, “even in
kidding.”
“Hulking,” insisted Daisy.
Sometimes she and Miss Baker talked at once, unobtrusively
and with a bantering inconsequence that was never quite chatter, that was as cool as their white dresses and their impersonal eyes in the absence of all desire. They were here, and they
accepted Tom and me, making only a polite pleasant effort to
entertain or to be entertained. They knew that presently dinner
would be over and a little later the evening too would be over
and casually put away. It was sharply different from the West,
where an evening was hurried from phase to phase toward its
close, in a continually disappointed anticipation or else in
sheer nervous dread of the moment itself.
12
“You make me feel uncivilized, Daisy,” I confessed on my
second glass of corky but rather impressive claret. “Can’t you
talk about crops or something?”
I meant nothing in particular by this remark, but it was taken
up in an unexpected way.
“Civilization’s going to pieces,” broke out Tom violently. “I’ve
gotten to be a terrible pessimist about things. Have you read
‘The Rise of the Colored Empires’ by this man Goddard?”
“Why, no,” I answered, rather surprised by his tone.
“Well, it’s a fine book, and everybody ought to read it. The
idea is if we don’t look out the white race will be — will be utterly submerged. It’s all scientific stuff; it’s been proved.”
“Tom’s getting very profound,” said Daisy, with an expression of unthoughtful sadness. “He reads deep books with long
words in them. What was that word we ——”
“Well, these books are all scientific,” insisted Tom, glancing
at her impatiently. “This fellow has worked out the whole
thing. It’s up to us, who are the dominant race, to watch out or
these other races will have control of things.”
“We’ve got to beat them down,” whispered Daisy, winking ferociously toward the fervent sun.
“You ought to live in California —” began Miss Baker, but
Tom interrupted her by shifting heavily in his chair.
“This idea is that we’re Nordics. I am, and you are, and you
are, and ——” After an infinitesimal hesitation he included
Daisy with a slight nod, and she winked at me again. “— And
we’ve produced all the things that go to make civilization — oh,
science and art, and all that. Do you see?”
There was something pathetic in his concentration, as if his
complacency, more acute than of old, was not enough to him
any more. When, almost immediately, the telephone rang inside and the butler left the porch Daisy seized upon the momentary interruption and leaned toward me.
“I’ll tell you a family secret,” she whispered enthusiastically.
“It’s about the butler’s nose. Do you want to hear about the
butler’s nose?”
“That’s why I came over to-night.”
“Well, he wasn’t always a butler; he used to be the silver polisher for some people in New York that had a silver service for
13
two hundred people. He had to polish it from morning till
night, until finally it began to affect his nose ——”
“Things went from bad to worse,” suggested Miss Baker.
“Yes. Things went from bad to worse, until finally he had to
give up his position.”
For a moment the last sunshine fell with romantic affection
upon her glowing face; her voice compelled me forward
breathlessly as I listened — then the glow faded, each light
deserting her with lingering regret, like children leaving a
pleasant street at dusk.
The butler came back and murmured something close to
Tom’s ear, whereupon Tom frowned, pushed back his chair,
and without a word went inside. As if his absence quickened
something within her, Daisy leaned forward again, her voice
glowing and singing.
“I love to see you at my table, Nick. You remind me of a — of
a rose, an absolute rose. Doesn’t he?” She turned to Miss
Baker for confirmation: “An absolute rose?”
This was untrue. I am not even faintly like a rose. She was
only extemporizing, but a stirring warmth flowed from her, as
if her heart was trying to come out to you concealed in one of
those breathless, thrilling words. Then suddenly she threw her
napkin on the table and excused herself and went into the
house.
Miss Baker and I exchanged a short glance consciously
devoid of meaning. I was about to speak when she sat up
alertly and said “Sh!” in a warning voice. A subdued impassioned murmur was audible in the room beyond, and Miss
Baker leaned forward unashamed, trying to hear. The murmur
trembled on the verge of coherence, sank down, mounted excitedly, and then ceased altogether.
“This Mr. Gatsby you spoke of is my neighbor ——” I said.
“Don’t talk. I want to hear what happens.”
“Is something happening?” I inquired innocently.
“You mean to say you don’t know?” said Miss Baker, honestly
surprised. “I thought everybody knew.”
“I don’t.”
“Why ——” she said hesitantly, “Tom’s got some woman in
New York.”
“Got some woman?” I repeated blankly.
14
Miss Baker nodded.
“She might have the decency not to telephone him at dinner
time. Don’t you think?”
Almost before I had grasped her meaning there was the flutter of a dress and the crunch of leather boots, and Tom and
Daisy were back at the table.
“It couldn’t be helped!” cried Daisy with tense gaiety.
She sat down, glanced searchingly at Miss Baker and then at
me, and continued: “I looked outdoors for a minute, and it’s
very romantic outdoors. There’s a bird on the lawn that I think
must be a nightingale come over on the Cunard or White Star
Line. He’s singing away ——” Her voice sang: “It’s romantic,
isn’t it, Tom?”
“Very romantic,” he said, and then miserably to me: “If it’s
light enough after dinner, I want to take you down to the
stables.”
The telephone rang inside, startlingly, and as Daisy shook
her head decisively at Tom the subject of the stables, in fact all
subjects, vanished into air. Among the broken fragments of the
last five minutes at table I remember the candles being lit
again, pointlessly, and I was conscious of wanting to look
squarely at every one, and yet to avoid all eyes. I couldn’t
guess what Daisy and Tom were thinking, but I doubt if even
Miss Baker, who seemed to have mastered a certain hardy
scepticism, was able utterly to put this fifth guest’s shrill
metallic urgency out of mind. To a certain temperament the
situation might have seemed intriguing — my own instinct was
to telephone immediately for the police.
The horses, needless to say, were not mentioned again. Tom
and Miss Baker, with several feet of twilight between them,
strolled back into the library, as if to a vigil beside a perfectly
tangible body, while, trying to look pleasantly interested and a
little deaf, I followed Daisy around a chain of connecting verandas to the porch in front. In its deep gloom we sat down side by
side on a wicker settee.
Daisy took her face in her hands as if feeling its lovely shape,
and her eyes moved gradually out into the velvet dusk. I saw
that turbulent emotions possessed her, so I asked what I
thought would be some sedative questions about her little girl.
15
“We don’t know each other very well, Nick,” she said suddenly. “Even if we are cousins. You didn’t come to my
wedding.”
“I wasn’t back from the war.”
“That’s true.” She hesitated. “Well, I’ve had a very bad time,
Nick, and I’m pretty cynical about everything.”
Evidently she had reason to be. I waited but she didn’t say
any more, and after a moment I returned rather feebly to the
subject of her daughter.
“I suppose she talks, and — eats, and everything.”
“Oh, yes.” She looked at me absently. “Listen, Nick; let me
tell you what I said when she was born. Would you like to
hear?”
“Very much.”
“It’ll show you how I’ve gotten to feel about — things. Well,
she was less than an hour old and Tom was God knows where.
I woke up out of the ether with an utterly abandoned feeling,
and asked the nurse right away if it was a boy or a girl. She
told me it was a girl, and so I turned my head away and wept.
‘all right,’ I said, ‘I’m glad it’s a girl. And I hope she’ll be a fool
— that’s the best thing a girl can be in this world, a beautiful
little fool.”
“You see I think everything’s terrible anyhow,” she went on
in a convinced way. “Everybody thinks so — the most advanced
people. And I KNOW. I’ve been everywhere and seen
everything and done everything.” Her eyes flashed around her
in a defiant way, rather like Tom’s, and she laughed with thrilling scorn. “Sophisticated — God, I’m sophisticated!”
The instant her voice broke off, ceasing to compel my attention, my belief, I felt the basic insincerity of what she had said.
It made me uneasy, as though the whole evening had been a
trick of some sort to exact a contributory emotion from me. I
waited, and sure enough, in a moment she looked at me with
an absolute smirk on her lovely face, as if she had asserted her
membership in a rather distinguished secret society to which
she and Tom belonged.
Inside, the crimson room bloomed with light.
Tom and Miss Baker sat at either end of the long couch and
she read aloud to him from the SATURDAY EVENING POST.—
the words, murmurous and uninflected, running together in a
16
soothing tune. The lamp-light, bright on his boots and dull on
the autumn-leaf yellow of her hair, glinted along the paper as
she turned a page with a flutter of slender muscles in her
arms.
When we came in she held us silent for a moment with a lifted hand.
“To be continued,” she said, tossing the magazine on the
table, “in our very next issue.”
Her body asserted itself with a restless movement of her
knee, and she stood up.
“Ten o’clock,” she remarked, apparently finding the time on
the ceiling. “Time for this good girl to go to bed.”
“Jordan’s going to play in the tournament to-morrow,” explained Daisy, “over at Westchester.”
“Oh — you’re Jordan BAKER.”
I knew now why her face was familiar — its pleasing contemptuous expression had looked out at me from many rotogravure pictures of the sporting life at Asheville and Hot
Springs and Palm Beach. I had heard some story of her too, a
critical, unpleasant story, but what it was I had forgotten long
ago.
“Good night,” she said softly. “Wake me at eight, won’t you.”
“If you’ll get up.”
“I will. Good night, Mr. Carraway. See you anon.”
“Of course you will,” confirmed Daisy. “In fact I think I’ll arrange a marriage. Come over often, Nick, and I’ll sort of — oh
— fling you together. You know — lock you up accidentally in
linen closets and push you out to sea in a boat, and all that sort
of thing ——”
“Good night,” called Miss Baker from the stairs. “I haven’t
heard a word.”
“She’s a nice girl,” said Tom after a moment. “They oughtn’t
to let her run around the country this way.”
“Who oughtn’t to?” inquired Daisy coldly.
“Her family.”
“Her family is one aunt about a thousand years old. Besides,
Nick’s going to look after her, aren’t you, Nick? She’s going to
spend lots of week-ends out here this summer. I think the
home influence will be very good for her.”
Daisy and Tom looked at each other for a moment in silence.
17
“Is she from New York?” I asked quickly.
“From Louisville. Our white girlhood was passed together
there. Our beautiful white ——”
“Did you give Nick a little heart to heart talk on the veranda?” demanded Tom suddenly.
“Did I?” She looked at me.
“I can’t seem to remember, but I think we talked about the
Nordic race. Yes, I’m sure we did. It sort of crept up on us and
first thing you know ——”
“Don’t believe everything you hear, Nick,” he advised me.
I said lightly that I had heard nothing at all, and a few
minutes later I got up to go home. They came to the door with
me and stood side by side in a cheerful square of light. As I
started my motor Daisy peremptorily called: “Wait!”
“I forgot to ask you something, and it’s important. We heard
you were engaged to a girl out West.”
“That’s right,” corroborated Tom kindly. “We heard that you
were engaged.”
“It’s libel. I’m too poor.”
“But we heard it,” insisted Daisy, surprising me by opening
up again in a flower-like way. “We heard it from three people,
so it must be true.”
Of course I knew what they were referring to, but I wasn’t
even vaguely engaged. The fact that gossip had published the
banns was one of the reasons I had come East. You can’t stop
going with an old friend on account of rumors, and on the other hand I had no intention of being rumored into marriage.
Their interest rather touched me and made them less remotely rich — nevertheless, I was confused and a little disgusted as I drove away. It seemed to me that the thing for Daisy to
do was to rush out of the house, child in arms — but apparently
there were no such intentions in her head. As for Tom, the fact
that he “had some woman in New York.” was really less surprising than that he had been depressed by a book. Something
was making him nibble at the edge of stale ideas as if his
sturdy physical egotism no longer nourished his peremptory
heart.
Already it was deep summer on roadhouse roofs and in front
of wayside garages, where new red gas-pumps sat out in pools
of light, and when I reached my estate at West Egg I ran the
18
car under its shed and sat for a while on an abandoned grass
roller in the yard. The wind had blown off, leaving a loud,
bright night, with wings beating in the trees and a persistent
organ sound as the full bellows of the earth blew the frogs full
of life. The silhouette of a moving cat wavered across the
moonlight, and turning my head to watch it, I saw that I was
not alone — fifty feet away a figure had emerged from the
shadow of my neighbor’s mansion and was standing with his
hands in his pockets regarding the silver pepper of the stars.
Something in his leisurely movements and the secure position
of his feet upon the lawn suggested that it was Mr. Gatsby himself, come out to determine what share was his of our local
heavens.
I decided to call to him. Miss Baker had mentioned him at
dinner, and that would do for an introduction. But I didn’t call
to him, for he gave a sudden intimation that he was content to
be alone — he stretched out his arms toward the dark water in
a curious way, and, far as I was from him, I could have sworn
he was trembling. Involuntarily I glanced seaward — and distinguished nothing except a single green light, minute and far
away, that might have been the end of a dock. When I looked
once more for Gatsby he had vanished, and I was alone again
in the unquiet darkness.
19
Chapter 2
A
bout half way between West Egg and New York the motor
road hastily joins the railroad and runs beside it for a
quarter of a mile, so as to shrink away from a certain desolate
area of land. This is a valley of ashes — a fantastic farm where
ashes grow like wheat into ridges and hills and grotesque gardens; where ashes take the forms of houses and chimneys and
rising smoke and, finally, with a transcendent effort, of men
who move dimly and already crumbling through the powdery
air. Occasionally a line of gray cars crawls along an invisible
track, gives out a ghastly creak, and comes to rest, and immediately the ash-gray men swarm up with leaden spades and stir
up an impenetrable cloud, which screens their obscure operations from your sight. But above the gray land and the spasms
of bleak dust which drift endlessly over it, you perceive, after a
moment, the eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg. The eyes of Doctor
T. J. Eckleburg are blue and gigantic — their irises are one
yard high. They look out of no face, but, instead, from a pair of
enormous yellow spectacles which pass over a nonexistent
nose. Evidently some wild wag of an oculist set them there to
fatten his practice in the borough of Queens, and then sank
down himself into eternal blindness, or forgot them and moved
away. But his eyes, dimmed a little by many paintless days, under sun and rain, brood on over the solemn dumping ground.
The valley of ashes is bounded on one side by a small foul
river, and, when the drawbridge is up to let barges through,
the passengers on waiting trains can stare at the dismal scene
for as long as half an hour. There is always a halt there of at
least a minute, and it was because of this that I first met Tom
Buchanan’s mistress.
The fact that he had one was insisted upon wherever he was
known. His acquaintances resented the fact that he turned up
in popular restaurants with her and, leaving her at a table,
20
sauntered about, chatting with whomsoever he knew. Though I
was curious to see her, I had no desire to meet her — but I did.
I went up to New York with Tom on the train one afternoon,
and when we stopped by the ashheaps he jumped to his feet
and, taking hold of my elbow, literally forced me from the car.
“We’re getting off,” he insisted. “I want you to meet my girl.”
I think he’d tanked up a good deal at luncheon, and his determination to have my company bordered on violence. The supercilious assumption was that on Sunday afternoon I had
nothing better to do.
I followed him over a low whitewashed railroad fence, and
we walked back a hundred yards along the road under Doctor
Eckleburg’s persistent stare. The only building in sight was a
small block of yellow brick sitting on the edge of the waste
land, a sort of compact Main Street ministering to it, and contiguous to absolutely nothing. One of the three shops it contained was for rent and another was an all-night restaurant,
approached by a trail of ashes; the third was a garage — Repairs. GEORGE B. WILSON. Cars bought and sold.— and I followed Tom inside.
The interior was unprosperous and bare; the only car visible
was the dust-covered wreck of a Ford which crouched in a dim
corner. It had occurred to me that this shadow of a garage
must be a blind, and that sumptuous and romantic apartments
were concealed overhead, when the proprietor himself appeared in the door of an office, wiping his hands on a piece of
waste. He was a blond, spiritless man, anaemic, and faintly
handsome. When he saw us a damp gleam of hope sprang into
his light blue eyes.
“Hello, Wilson, old man,” said Tom, slapping him jovially on
the shoulder. “How’s business?”
“I can’t complain,” answered Wilson unconvincingly. “When
are you going to sell me that car?”
“Next week; I’ve got my man working on it now.”
“Works pretty slow, don’t he?”
“No, he doesn’t,” said Tom coldly. “And if you feel that way
about it, maybe I’d better sell it somewhere else after all.”
“I don’t mean that,” explained Wilson quickly. “I just meant
——”
21
His voice faded off and Tom glanced impatiently around the
garage. Then I heard footsteps on a stairs, and in a moment
the thickish figure of a woman blocked out the light from the
office door. She was in the middle thirties, and faintly stout,
but she carried her surplus flesh sensuously as some women
can. Her face, above a spotted dress of dark blue crepe-dechine, contained no facet or gleam of beauty, but there was an
immediately perceptible vitality about her as if the nerves of
her body were continually smouldering. She smiled slowly and,
walking through her husband as if he were a ghost, shook
hands with Tom, looking him flush in the eye. Then she wet her
lips, and without turning around spoke to her husband in a
soft, coarse voice:
“Get some chairs, why don’t you, so somebody can sit down.”
“Oh, sure,” agreed Wilson hurriedly, and went toward the
little office, mingling immediately with the cement color of the
walls. A white ashen dust veiled his dark suit and his pale hair
as it veiled everything in the vicinity — except his wife, who
moved close to Tom.
“I want to see you,” said Tom intently. “Get on the next
train.”
“All right.”
“I’ll meet you by the news-stand on the lower level.” She nodded and moved away from him just as George Wilson emerged
with two chairs from his office door.
We waited for her down the road and out of sight. It was a
few days before the Fourth of July, and a gray, scrawny Italian
child was setting torpedoes in a row along the railroad track.
“Terrible place, isn’t it,” said Tom, exchanging a frown with
Doctor Eckleburg.
“Awful.”
“It does her good to get away.”
“Doesn’t her husband object?”
“Wilson? He thinks she goes to see her sister in New York.
He’s so dumb he doesn’t know he’s alive.”
So Tom Buchanan and his girl and I went up together to New
York — or not quite together, for Mrs. Wilson sat discreetly in
another car. Tom deferred that much to the sensibilities of
those East Eggers who might be on the train.
22
She had changed her dress to a brown figured muslin, which
stretched tight over her rather wide hips as Tom helped her to
the platform in New York. At the news-stand she bought a copy
of TOWN TATTLE. and a moving-picture magazine, and in the
station drug-store some cold cream and a small flask of
perfume. Up-stairs, in the solemn echoing drive she let four
taxicabs drive away before she selected a new one, lavendercolored with gray upholstery, and in this we slid out from the
mass of the station into the glowing sunshine. But immediately
she turned sharply from the window and, leaning forward,
tapped on the front glass.
“I want to get one of those dogs,” she said earnestly. “I want
to get one for the apartment. They’re nice to have — a dog.”
We backed up to a gray old man who bore an absurd resemblance to John D. Rockefeller. In a basket swung from his neck
cowered a dozen very recent puppies of an indeterminate
breed.
“What kind are they?” asked Mrs. Wilson eagerly, as he came
to the taxi-window.
“All kinds. What kind do you want, lady?”
“I’d like to get one of those police dogs; I don’t suppose you
got that kind?”
The man peered doubtfully into the basket, plunged in his
hand and drew one up, wriggling, by the back of the neck.
“That’s no police dog,” said Tom.
“No, it’s not exactly a polICE dog,” said the man with disappointment in his voice. “It’s more of an Airedale.” He passed
his hand over the brown wash-rag of a back. “Look at that coat.
Some coat. That’s a dog that’ll never bother you with catching
cold.”
“I think it’s cute,” said Mrs. Wilson enthusiastically. “How
much is it?”
“That dog?” He looked at it admiringly. “That dog will cost
you ten dollars.”
The Airedale — undoubtedly there was an Airedale concerned in it somewhere, though its feet were startlingly white
— changed hands and settled down into Mrs. Wilson’s lap,
where she fondled the weather-proof coat with rapture.
“Is it a boy or a girl?” she asked delicately.
“That dog? That dog’s a boy.”
23
“It’s a bitch,” said Tom decisively. “Here’s your money. Go
and buy ten more dogs with it.”
We drove over to Fifth Avenue, so warm and soft, almost pastoral, on the summer Sunday afternoon that I wouldn’t have
been surprised to see a great flock of white sheep turn the
corner.
“Hold on,” I said, “I have to leave you here.”
“No, you don’t,” interposed Tom quickly.
“Myrtle’ll be hurt if you don’t come up to the apartment.
Won’t you, Myrtle?”
“Come on,” she urged. “I’ll telephone my sister Catherine.
She’s said to be very beautiful by people who ought to know.”
“Well, I’d like to, but ——”
We went on, cutting back again over the Park toward the
West Hundreds. At 158th Street the cab stopped at one slice in
a long white cake of apartment-houses. Throwing a regal
homecoming glance around the neighborhood, Mrs. Wilson
gathered up her dog and her other purchases, and went
haughtily in.
“I’m going to have the McKees come up,” she announced as
we rose in the elevator. “And, of course, I got to call up my sister, too.”
The apartment was on the top floor — a small living-room, a
small dining-room, a small bedroom, and a bath. The livingroom was crowded to the doors with a set of tapestried furniture entirely too large for it, so that to move about was to
stumble continually over scenes of ladies swinging in the gardens of Versailles. The only picture was an over-enlarged photograph, apparently a hen sitting on a blurred rock. Looked at
from a distance, however, the hen resolved itself into a bonnet,
and the countenance of a stout old lady beamed down into the
room. Several old copies of TOWN TATTLE. lay on the table together with a copy of SIMON CALLED PETER, and some of the
small scandal magazines of Broadway. Mrs. Wilson was first
concerned with the dog. A reluctant elevator-boy went for a
box full of straw and some milk, to which he added on his own
initiative a tin of large, hard dog-biscuits — one of which decomposed apathetically in the saucer of milk all afternoon.
Meanwhile Tom brought out a bottle of whiskey from a locked
bureau door.
24
I have been drunk just twice in my life, and the second time
was that afternoon; so everything that happened has a dim,
hazy cast over it, although until after eight o’clock the apartment was full of cheerful sun. Sitting on Tom’s lap Mrs. Wilson
called up several people on the telephone; then there were no
cigarettes, and I went out to buy some at the drugstore on the
corner. When I came back they had disappeared, so I sat down
discreetly in the living-room and read a chapter of SIMON
CALLED PETER.— either it was terrible stuff or the whiskey
distorted things, because it didn’t make any sense to me.
Just as Tom and Myrtle (after the first drink Mrs. Wilson and
I called each other by our first names) reappeared, company
commenced to arrive at the apartment-door.
The sister, Catherine, was a slender, worldly girl of about
thirty, with a solid, sticky bob of red hair, and a complexion
powdered milky white. Her eye-brows had been plucked and
then drawn on again at a more rakish angle, but the efforts of
nature toward the restoration of the old alignment gave a
blurred air to her face. When she moved about there was an incessant clicking as innumerable pottery bracelets jingled up
and down upon her arms. She came in with such a proprietary
haste, and looked around so possessively at the furniture that I
wondered if she lived here. But when I asked her she laughed
immoderately, repeated my question aloud, and told me she
lived with a girl friend at a hotel.
Mr. McKee was a pale, feminine man from the flat below. He
had just shaved, for there was a white spot of lather on his
cheekbone, and he was most respectful in his greeting to every
one in the room. He informed me that he was in the “artistic
game,” and I gathered later that he was a photographer and
had made the dim enlargement of Mrs. Wilson’s mother which
hovered like an ectoplasm on the wall. His wife was shrill, languid, handsome, and horrible. She told me with pride that her
husband had photographed her a hundred and twenty-seven
times since they had been married.
Mrs. Wilson had changed her costume some time before, and
was now attired in an elaborate afternoon dress of creamcolored chiffon, which gave out a continual rustle as she swept
about the room. With the influence of the dress her personality
had also undergone a change. The intense vitality that had
25
been so remarkable in the garage was converted into impressive hauteur. Her laughter, her gestures, her assertions became
more violently affected moment by moment, and as she expanded the room grew smaller around her, until she seemed to be
revolving on a noisy, creaking pivot through the smoky air.
“My dear,” she told her sister in a high, mincing shout, “most
of these fellas will cheat you every time. All they think of is
money. I had a woman up here last week to look at my feet,
and when she gave me the bill you’d of thought she had my appendicitis out.”
“What was the name of the woman?” asked Mrs. McKee.
“Mrs. Eberhardt. She goes around looking at people’s feet in
their own homes.”
“I like your dress,” remarked Mrs. McKee, “I think it’s
adorable.”
Mrs. Wilson rejected the compliment by raising her eyebrow
in disdain.
“It’s just a crazy old thing,” she said. “I just slip it on sometimes when I don’t care what I look like.”
“But it looks wonderful on you, if you know what I mean,”
pursued Mrs. McKee. “If Chester could only get you in that
pose I think he could make something of it.”
We all looked in silence at Mrs. Wilson, who removed a
strand of hair from over her eyes and looked back at us with a
brilliant smile. Mr. McKee regarded her intently with his head
on one side, and then moved his hand back and forth slowly in
front of his face.
“I should change the light,” he said after a moment. “I’d like
to bring out the modelling of the features. And I’d try to get
hold of all the back hair.”
“I wouldn’t think of changing the light,” cried Mrs. McKee. “I
think it’s ——”
Her husband said “SH!” and we all looked at the subject
again, whereupon Tom Buchanan yawned audibly and got to
his feet.
“You McKees have something to drink,” he said. “Get some
more ice and mineral water, Myrtle, before everybody goes to
sleep.”
26
“I told that boy about the ice.” Myrtle raised her eyebrows in
despair at the shiftlessness of the lower orders. “These people!
You have to keep after them all the time.”
She looked at me and laughed pointlessly. Then she flounced
over to the dog, kissed it with ecstasy, and swept into the kitchen, implying that a dozen chefs awaited her orders there.
“I’ve done some nice things out on Long Island,” asserted
Mr. McKee.
Tom looked at him blankly.
“Two of them we have framed down-stairs.”
“Two what?” demanded Tom.
“Two studies. One of them I call MONTAUK POINT— THE
GULLS, and the other I call MONTAUK POINT— THE SEA.”
The sister Catherine sat down beside me on the couch.
“Do you live down on Long Island, too?” she inquired.
“I live at West Egg.”
“Really? I was down there at a party about a month ago. At a
man named Gatsby’s. Do you know him?”
“I live next door to him.”
“Well, they say he’s a nephew or a cousin of Kaiser Wilhelm’s. That’s where all his money comes from.”
“Really?”
She nodded.
“I’m scared of him. I’d hate to have him get anything on me.”
This absorbing information about my neighbor was interrupted by Mrs. McKee’s pointing suddenly at Catherine:
“Chester, I think you could do something with HER,” she
broke out, but Mr. McKee only nodded in a bored way, and
turned his attention to Tom.
“I’d like to do more work on Long Island, if I could get the
entry. All I ask is that they should give me a start.”
“Ask Myrtle,” said Tom, breaking into a short shout of
laughter as Mrs. Wilson entered with a tray. “She’ll give you a
letter of introduction, won’t you Myrtle?”
“Do what?” she asked, startled.
“You’ll give McKee a letter of introduction to your husband,
so he can do some studies of him.” His lips moved silently for a
moment as he invented. “GEORGE B. WILSON AT THE
GASOLINE PUMP, or something like that.”
27
Catherine leaned close to me and whispered in my ear:
“Neither of them can stand the person they’re married to.”
“Can’t they?”
“Can’t STAND them.” She looked at Myrtle and then at Tom.
“What I say is, why go on living with them if they can’t stand
them? If I was them I’d get a divorce and get married to each
other right away.”
“Doesn’t she like Wilson either?”
The answer to this was unexpected. It came from Myrtle,
who had overheard the question, and it was violent and
obscene.
“You see,” cried Catherine triumphantly. She lowered her
voice again. “It’s really his wife that’s keeping them apart.
She’s a Catholic, and they don’t believe in divorce.”
Daisy was not a Catholic, and I was a little shocked at the
elaborateness of the lie.
“When they do get married,” continued Catherine, “they’re
going West to live for a while until it blows over.”
“It’d be more discreet to go to Europe.”
“Oh, do you like Europe?” she exclaimed surprisingly. “I just
got back from Monte Carlo.”
“Really.”
“Just last year. I went over there with another girl.” “Stay
long?”
“No, we just went to Monte Carlo and back. We went by way
of Marseilles. We had over twelve hundred dollars when we
started, but we got gypped out of it all in two days in the
private rooms. We had an awful time getting back, I can tell
you. God, how I hated that town!”
The late afternoon sky bloomed in the window for a moment
like the blue honey of the Mediterranean — then the shrill
voice of Mrs. McKee called me back into the room.
“I almost made a mistake, too,” she declared vigorously. “I
almost married a little kyke who’d been after me for years. I
knew he was below me. Everybody kept saying to me: ‘Lucille,
that man’s ‘way below you!’ But if I hadn’t met Chester, he’d of
got me sure.”
“Yes, but listen,” said Myrtle Wilson, nodding her head up
and down, “at least you didn’t marry him.”
“I know I didn’t.”
28
“Well, I married him,” said Myrtle, ambiguously. “And that’s
the difference between your case and mine.”
“Why did you, Myrtle?” demanded Catherine. “Nobody
forced you to.”
Myrtle considered.
“I married him because I thought he was a gentleman,” she
said finally. “I thought he knew something about breeding, but
he wasn’t fit to lick my shoe.”
“You were crazy about him for a while,” said Catherine.
“Crazy about him!” cried Myrtle incredulously. “Who said I
was crazy about him? I never was any more crazy about him
than I was about that man there.”
She pointed suddenly at me, and every one looked at me accusingly. I tried to show by my expression that I had played no
part in her past.
“The only CRAZY I was was when I married him. I knew right
away I made a mistake. He borrowed somebody’s best suit to
get married in, and never even told me about it, and the man
came after it one day when he was out. ‘oh, is that your suit?’ I
said. ‘this is the first I ever heard about it.’ But I gave it to him
and then I lay down and cried to beat the band all afternoon.”
“She really ought to get away from him,” resumed Catherine
to me. “They’ve been living over that garage for eleven years.
And tom’s the first sweetie she ever had.”
The bottle of whiskey — a second one — was now in constant
demand by all present, excepting Catherine, who “felt just as
good on nothing at all.” Tom rang for the janitor and sent him
for some celebrated sandwiches, which were a complete supper in themselves. I wanted to get out and walk southward toward the park through the soft twilight, but each time I tried to
go I became entangled in some wild, strident argument which
pulled me back, as if with ropes, into my chair. Yet high over
the city our line of yellow windows must have contributed their
share of human secrecy to the casual watcher in the darkening
streets, and I was him too, looking up and wondering. I was
within and without, simultaneously enchanted and repelled by
the inexhaustible variety of life.
Myrtle pulled her chair close to mine, and suddenly her
warm breath poured over me the story of her first meeting
with Tom.
29
“It was on the two little seats facing each other that are always the last ones left on the train. I was going up to New York
to see my sister and spend the night. He had on a dress suit
and patent leather shoes, and I couldn’t keep my eyes off him,
but every time he looked at me I had to pretend to be looking
at the advertisement over his head. When we came into the
station he was next to me, and his white shirt-front pressed
against my arm, and so I told him I’d have to call a policeman,
but he knew I lied. I was so excited that when I got into a taxi
with him I didn’t hardly know I wasn’t getting into a subway
train. All I kept thinking about, over and over, was ‘You can’t
live forever; you can’t live forever.’”
She turned to Mrs. McKee and the room rang full of her artificial laughter.
“My dear,” she cried, “I’m going to give you this dress as
soon as I’m through with it. I’ve got to get another one to-morrow. I’m going to make a list of all the things I’ve got to get. A
massage and a wave, and a collar for the dog, and one of those
cute little ash-trays where you touch a spring, and a wreath
with a black silk bow for mother’s grave that’ll last all summer.
I got to write down a list so I won’t forget all the things I got to
do.”
It was nine o’clock — almost immediately afterward I looked
at my watch and found it was ten. Mr. McKee was asleep on a
chair with his fists clenched in his lap, like a photograph of a
man of action. Taking out my handkerchief I wiped from his
cheek the remains of the spot of dried lather that had worried
me all the afternoon.
The little dog was sitting on the table looking with blind eyes
through the smoke, and from time to time groaning faintly.
People disappeared, reappeared, made plans to go somewhere,
and then lost each other, searched for each other, found each
other a few feet away. Some time toward midnight Tom
Buchanan and Mrs. Wilson stood face to face discussing, in impassioned voices, whether Mrs. Wilson had any right to mention Daisy’s name.
“Daisy! Daisy! Daisy!” shouted Mrs. Wilson. “I’ll say it
whenever I want to! Daisy! Dai ——”
Making a short deft movement, Tom Buchanan broke her
nose with his open hand.
30
Then there were bloody towels upon the bath-room floor, and
women’s voices scolding, and high over the confusion a long
broken wail of pain. Mr. McKee awoke from his doze and started in a daze toward the door. When he had gone half way he
turned around and stared at the scene — his wife and Catherine scolding and consoling as they stumbled here and there
among the crowded furniture with articles of aid, and the despairing figure on the couch, bleeding fluently, and trying to
spread a copy of TOWN TATTLE. over the tapestry scenes of
Versailles. Then Mr. McKee turned and continued on out the
door. Taking my hat from the chandelier, I followed.
“Come to lunch some day,” he suggested, as we groaned
down in the elevator.
“Where?”
“Anywhere.”
“Keep your hands off the lever,” snapped the elevator boy.
“I beg your pardon,” said Mr. McKee with dignity, “I didn’t
know I was touching it.”
“All right,” I agreed, “I’ll be glad to.”
… I was standing beside his bed and he was sitting up
between the sheets, clad in his underwear, with a great portfolio in his hands.
“Beauty and the Beast … Loneliness … Old Grocery Horse …
Brook’n Bridge … .”
Then I was lying half asleep in the cold lower level of the
Pennsylvania Station, staring at the morning TRIBUNE, and
waiting for the four o’clock train.
31
Chapter 3
T
here was music from my neighbor’s house through the
summer nights. In his blue gardens men and girls came
and went like moths among the whisperings and the champagne and the stars. At high tide in the afternoon I watched his
guests diving from the tower of his raft, or taking the sun on
the hot sand of his beach while his two motor-boats slit the waters of the Sound, drawing aquaplanes over cataracts of foam.
On week-ends his Rolls-Royce became an omnibus, bearing
parties to and from the city between nine in the morning and
long past midnight, while his station wagon scampered like a
brisk yellow bug to meet all trains. And on Mondays eight servants, including an extra gardener, toiled all day with mops
and scrubbing-brushes and hammers and garden-shears, repairing the ravages of the night before.
Every Friday five crates of oranges and lemons arrived from
a fruiterer in New York — every Monday these same oranges
and lemons left his back door in a pyramid of pulpless halves.
There was a machine in the kitchen which could extract the
juice of two hundred oranges in half an hour if a little button
was pressed two hundred times by a butler’s thumb.
At least once a fortnight a corps of caterers came down with
several hundred feet of canvas and enough colored lights to
make a Christmas tree of Gatsby’s enormous garden. On buffet
tables, garnished with glistening hors-d’oeuvre, spiced baked
hams crowded against salads of harlequin designs and pastry
pigs and turkeys bewitched to a dark gold. In the main hall a
bar with a real brass rail was set up, and stocked with gins and
liquors and with cordials so long forgotten that most of his female guests were too young to know one from another.
By seven o’clock the orchestra has arrived, no thin five-piece
affair, but a whole pitful of oboes and trombones and saxophones and viols and cornets and piccolos, and low and high
32
drums. The last swimmers have come in from the beach now
and are dressing up-stairs; the cars from New York are parked
five deep in the drive, and already the halls and salons and verandas are gaudy with primary colors, and hair shorn in strange
new ways, and shawls beyond the dreams of Castile. The bar is
in full swing, and floating rounds of cocktails permeate the
garden outside, until the air is alive with chatter and laughter,
and casual innuendo and introductions forgotten on the spot,
and enthusiastic meetings between women who never knew
each other’s names.
The lights grow brighter as the earth lurches away from the
sun, and now the orchestra is playing yellow cocktail music,
and the opera of voices pitches a key higher. Laughter is easier
minute by minute, spilled with prodigality, tipped out at a
cheerful word. The groups change more swiftly, swell with new
arrivals, dissolve and form in the same breath; already there
are wanderers, confident girls who weave here and there
among the stouter and more stable, become for a sharp, joyous
moment the centre of a group, and then, excited with triumph,
glide on through the sea-change of faces and voices and color
under the constantly changing light.
Suddenly one of the gypsies, in trembling opal, seizes a cocktail out of the air, dumps it down for courage and, moving her
hands like Frisco, dances out alone on the canvas platform. A
momentary hush; the orchestra leader varies his rhythm obligingly for her, and there is a burst of chatter as the erroneous
news goes around that she is Gilda Gray’s understudy from the
FOLLIES. The party has begun.
I believe that on the first night I went to Gatsby’s house I
was one of the few guests who had actually been invited.
People were not invited — they went there. They got into automobiles which bore them out to Long Island, and somehow
they ended up at Gatsby’s door. Once there they were introduced by somebody who knew Gatsby, and after that they conducted themselves according to the rules of behavior associated with amusement parks. Sometimes they came and went
without having met Gatsby at all, came for the party with a
simplicity of heart that was its own ticket of admission.
I had been actually invited. A chauffeur in a uniform of
robin’s-egg blue crossed my lawn early that Saturday morning
33
with a surprisingly formal note from his employer: the honor
would be entirely Gatsby’s, it said, if I would attend his “little
party.” that night. He had seen me several times, and had intended to call on me long before, but a peculiar combination of
circumstances had prevented it — signed Jay Gatsby, in a
majestic hand.
Dressed up in white flannels I went over to his lawn a little
after seven, and wandered around rather ill at ease among
swirls and eddies of people I didn’t know — though here and
there was a face I had noticed on the commuting train. I was
immediately struck by the number of young Englishmen dotted
about; all well dressed, all looking a little hungry, and all talking in low, earnest voices to solid and prosperous Americans. I
was sure that they were selling something: bonds or insurance
or automobiles. They were at least agonizingly aware of the
easy money in the vicinity and convinced that it was theirs for
a few words in the right key.
As soon as I arrived I made an attempt to find my host, but
the two or three people of whom I asked his whereabouts
stared at me in such an amazed way, and denied so vehemently
any knowledge of his movements, that I slunk off in the direction of the cocktail table — the only place in the garden where
a single man could linger without looking purposeless and
alone.
I was on my way to get roaring drunk from sheer embarrassment when Jordan Baker came out of the house and stood at
the head of the marble steps, leaning a little backward and
looking with contemptuous interest down into the garden.
Welcome or not, I found it necessary to attach myself to
some one before I should begin to address cordial remarks to
the passers-by.
“Hello!” I roared, advancing toward her. My voice seemed
unnaturally loud across the garden.
“I thought you might be here,” she responded absently as I
came up. “I remembered you lived next door to ——” She held
my hand impersonally, as a promise that she’d take care of me
in a minute, and gave ear to two girls in twin yellow dresses,
who stopped at the foot of the steps.
“Hello!” they cried together. “Sorry you didn’t win.”
34
That was for the golf tournament. She had lost in the finals
the week before.
“You don’t know who we are,” said one of the girls in yellow,
“but we met you here about a month ago.”
“You’ve dyed your hair since then,” remarked Jordan, and I
started, but the girls had moved casually on and her remark
was addressed to the premature moon, produced like the supper, no doubt, out of a caterer’s basket. With Jordan’s slender
golden arm resting in mine, we descended the steps and
sauntered about the garden. A tray of cocktails floated at us
through the twilight, and we sat down at a table with the two
girls in yellow and three men, each one introduced to us as Mr.
Mumble.
“Do you come to these parties often?” inquired Jordan of the
girl beside her.
“The last one was the one I met you at,” answered the girl, in
an alert confident voice. She turned to her companion: “Wasn’t
it for you, Lucille?”
It was for Lucille, too.
“I like to come,” Lucille said. “I never care what I do, so I always have a good time. When I was here last I tore my gown
on a chair, and he asked me my name and address — inside of
a week I got a package from Croirier’s with a new evening
gown in it.”
“Did you keep it?” asked Jordan.
“Sure I did. I was going to wear it to-night, but it was too big
in the bust and had to be altered. It was gas blue with lavender
beads. Two hundred and sixty-five dollars.”
“There’s something funny about a fellow that’ll do a thing
like that,” said the other girl eagerly. “He doesn’t want any
trouble with ANYbody.”
“Who doesn’t?” I inquired.
“Gatsby. Somebody told me ——”
The two girls and Jordan leaned together confidentially.
“Somebody told me they thought he killed a man once.”
A thrill passed over all of us. The three Mr. Mumbles bent
forward and listened eagerly.
“I don’t think it’s so much THAT,” argued Lucille sceptically;
“it’s more that he was a German spy during the war.”
One of the men nodded in confirmation.
35
“I heard that from a man who knew all about him, grew up
with him in Germany,” he assured us positively.
“Oh, no,” said the first girl, “it couldn’t be that, because he
was in the American army during the war.” As our credulity
switched back to her she leaned forward with enthusiasm.
“You look at him sometimes when he thinks nobody’s looking
at him. I’ll bet he killed a man.”
She narrowed her eyes and shivered. Lucille shivered. We all
turned and looked around for Gatsby. It was testimony to the
romantic speculation he inspired that there were whispers
about him from those who found little that it was necessary to
whisper about in this world.
The first supper — there would be another one after midnight — was now being served, and Jordan invited me to join
her own party, who were spread around a table on the other
side of the garden. There were three married couples and
Jordan’s escort, a persistent undergraduate given to violent innuendo, and obviously under the impression that sooner or
later Jordan was going to yield him up her person to a greater
or lesser degree. Instead of rambling, this party had preserved
a dignified homogeneity, and assumed to itself the function of
representing the staid nobility of the country-side — East Egg
condescending to West Egg, and carefully on guard against its
spectroscopic gayety.
“Let’s get out,” whispered Jordan, after a somehow wasteful
and inappropriate half-hour. “This is much too polite for me.”
We got up, and she explained that we were going to find the
host: I had never met him, she said, and it was making me uneasy. The undergraduate nodded in a cynical, melancholy way.
The bar, where we glanced first, was crowded, but Gatsby
was not there. She couldn’t find him from the top of the steps,
and he wasn’t on the veranda. On a chance we tried an
important-looking door, and walked into a high Gothic library,
panelled with carved English oak, and probably transported
complete from some ruin overseas.
A stout, middle-aged man, with enormous owl-eyed spectacles, was sitting somewhat drunk on the edge of a great
table, staring with unsteady concentration at the shelves of
books. As we entered he wheeled excitedly around and examined Jordan from head to foot.
36
“What do you think?” he demanded impetuously.
“About what?” He waved his hand toward the book-shelves.
“About that. As a matter of fact you needn’t bother to ascertain. I ascertained. They’re real.”
“The books?”
He nodded.
“Absolutely real — have pages and everything. I thought
they’d be a nice durable cardboard. Matter of fact, they’re absolutely real. Pages and — Here! Lemme show you.”
Taking our scepticism for granted, he rushed to the bookcases and returned with Volume One of the “Stoddard
Lectures.”
“See!” he cried triumphantly. “It’s a bona-fide piece of printed matter. It fooled me. This fella’s a regular Belasco. It’s a
triumph. What thoroughness! What realism! Knew when to
stop, too — didn’t cut the pages. But what do you want? What
do you expect?”
He snatched the book from me and replaced it hastily on its
shelf, muttering that if one brick was removed the whole library was liable to collapse.
“Who brought you?” he demanded. “Or did you just come? I
was brought. Most people were brought.”
Jordan looked at him alertly, cheerfully, without answering.
“I was brought by a woman named Roosevelt,” he continued.
“Mrs. Claud Roosevelt. Do you know her? I met her somewhere
last night. I’ve been drunk for about a week now, and I thought
it might sober me up to sit in a library.”
“Has it?”
“A little bit, I think. I can’t tell yet. I’ve only been here an
hour. Did I tell you about the books? They’re real. They’re ——”
“You told us.” We shook hands with him gravely and went
back outdoors.
There was dancing now on the canvas in the garden; old men
pushing young girls backward in eternal graceless circles, superior couples holding each other tortuously, fashionably, and
keeping in the corners — and a great number of single girls
dancing individualistically or relieving the orchestra for a moment of the burden of the banjo or the traps. By midnight the
hilarity had increased. A celebrated tenor had sung in Italian,
and a notorious contralto had sung in jazz, and between the
37
numbers people were doing “stunts.” all over the garden, while
happy, vacuous bursts of laughter rose toward the summer sky.
A pair of stage twins, who turned out to be the girls in yellow,
did a baby act in costume, and champagne was served in
glasses bigger than finger-bowls. The moon had risen higher,
and floating in the Sound was a triangle of silver scales, trembling a little to the stiff, tinny drip of the banjoes on the lawn.
I was still with Jordan Baker. We were sitting at a table with
a man of about my age and a rowdy little girl, who gave way
upon the slightest provocation to uncontrollable laughter. I
was enjoying myself now. I had taken two finger-bowls of
champagne, and the scene had changed before my eyes into
something significant, elemental, and profound.
At a lull in the entertainment the man looked at me and
smiled.
“Your face is familiar,” he said, politely. “Weren’t you in the
Third Division during the war?”
“Why, yes. I was in the Ninth Machine-gun Battalion.”
“I was in the Seventh Infantry until June nineteen-eighteen. I
knew I’d seen you somewhere before.”
We talked for a moment about some wet, gray little villages
in France. Evidently he lived in this vicinity, for he told me that
he had just bought a hydroplane, and was going to try it out in
the morning.
“Want to go with me, old sport? Just near the shore along the
Sound.”
“What time?”
“Any time that suits you best.”
It was on the tip of my tongue to ask his name when Jordan
looked around and smiled.
“Having a gay time now?” she inquired.
“Much better.” I turned again to my new acquaintance. “This
is an unusual party for me. I haven’t even seen the host. I live
over there ——” I waved my hand at the invisible hedge in the
distance, “and this man Gatsby sent over his chauffeur with an
invitation.” For a moment he looked at me as if he failed to
understand.
“I’m Gatsby,” he said suddenly.
“What!” I exclaimed. “Oh, I beg your pardon.”
38
“I thought you knew, old sport. I’m afraid I’m not a very good
host.”
He smiled understandingly — much more than understandingly. It was one of those rare smiles with a quality of eternal
reassurance in it, that you may come across four or five times
in life. It faced — or seemed to face — the whole external world
for an instant, and then concentrated on you with an irresistible prejudice in your favor. It understood you just so far as you
wanted to be understood, believed in you as you would like to
believe in yourself, and assured you that it had precisely the
impression of you that, at your best, you hoped to convey. Precisely at that point it vanished — and I was looking at an elegant young rough-neck, a year or two over thirty, whose elaborate formality of speech just missed being absurd. Some time
before he introduced himself I’d got a strong impression that
he was picking his words with care.
Almost at the moment when Mr. Gatsby identified himself, a
butler hurried toward him with the information that Chicago
was calling him on the wire. He excused himself with a small
bow that included each of us in turn.
“If you want anything just ask for it, old sport,” he urged me.
“Excuse me. I will rejoin you later.”
When he was gone I turned immediately to Jordan — constrained to assure her of my surprise. I had expected that Mr.
Gatsby would be a florid and corpulent person in his middle
years.
“Who is he?” I demanded.
“Do you know?”
“He’s just a man named Gatsby.”
“Where is he from, I mean? And what does he do?”
“Now YOU’RE started on the subject,” she answered with a
wan smile. “Well, he told me once he was an Oxford man.” A
dim background started to take shape behind him, but at her
next remark it faded away.
“However, I don’t believe it.”
“Why not?” “I don’t know,” she insisted, “I just don’t think he
went there.”
Something in her tone reminded me of the other girl’s “I
think he killed a man,” and had the effect of stimulating my
curiosity. I would have accepted without question the
39
information that Gatsby sprang from the swamps of Louisiana
or from the lower East Side of New York. That was comprehensible. But young men didn’t — at least in my provincial inexperience I believed they didn’t — drift coolly out of nowhere
and buy a palace on Long Island Sound.
“Anyhow, he gives large parties,” said Jordan, changing the
subject with an urbane distaste for the concrete. “And I like
large parties. They’re so intimate. At small parties there isn’t
any privacy.”
There was the boom of a bass drum, and the voice of the orchestra leader rang out suddenly above the echolalia of the
garden.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” he cried. “At the request of Mr.
Gatsby we are going to play for you Mr. Vladimir Tostoff’s
latest work, which attracted so much attention at Carnegie
Hall last May. If you read the papers, you know there was a big
sensation.” He smiled with jovial condescension, and added:
“Some sensation!” Whereupon everybody laughed.
“The piece is known,” he concluded lustily, “as Vladimir
Tostoff’s JAZZ HISTORY OF THE WORLD.”
The nature of Mr. Tostoff’s composition eluded me, because
just as it began my eyes fell on Gatsby, standing alone on the
marble steps and looking from one group to another with approving eyes. His tanned skin was drawn attractively tight on
his face and his short hair looked as though it were trimmed
every day. I could see nothing sinister about him. I wondered if
the fact that he was not drinking helped to set him off from his
guests, for it seemed to me that he grew more correct as the
fraternal hilarity increased. When the JAZZ HISTORY OF THE
WORLD was over, girls were putting their heads on men’s
shoulders in a puppyish, convivial way, girls were swooning
backward playfully into men’s arms, even into groups, knowing
that some one would arrest their falls — but no one swooned
backward on Gatsby, and no French bob touched Gatsby’s
shoulder, and no singing quartets were formed with Gatsby’s
head for one link.
“I beg your pardon.”
Gatsby’s butler was suddenly standing beside us.
“Miss Baker?” he inquired. “I beg your pardon, but Mr.
Gatsby would like to speak to you alone.”
40
“With me?” she exclaimed in surprise.
“Yes, madame.”
She got up slowly, raising her eyebrows at me in astonishment, and followed the butler toward the house. I noticed that
she wore her evening-dress, all her dresses, like sports clothes
— there was a jauntiness about her movements as if she had
first learned to walk upon golf courses on clean, crisp
mornings.
I was alone and it was almost two. For some time confused
and intriguing sounds had issued from a long, many-windowed
room which overhung the terrace. Eluding Jordan’s undergraduate, who was now engaged in an obstetrical conversation
with two chorus girls, and who implored me to join him, I went
inside.
The large room was full of people. One of the girls in yellow
was playing the piano, and beside her stood a tall, red-haired
